README



**Purpose:** This software package, written in MATLAB 2023a, analyzes flow cytometric fluorescence measurements of single virion-liposome pairs (exported from FlowJo in .csv format) to generate kinetic trajectories of fraction fused pairs over time. The pipeline bins per‑event trajectories, detects an onset time (t\_0) from rate changes, initializes reference fluorescence distributions, and then identifies the relative weights of those reference distributions within each time bin to generate a kinetic trajectory. corresponding to unfused and lipid-mixed pairs The primary entry point is **`main_chirpfit11***.m`**, where \*\*\* indicate versions of the main file with analysis parameters for specific experiments.



**MATLAB toolbox dependencies:** Statistics and Machine Learning Toolbox





**Input data:** 

Use FlowJo software to gate the population of bound virion-liposome pairs and export (with headers) the contents of that gate for each individual sample as separate .csv files. In FlowJo, also identify the initial pre-pH drop plateau time interval and the final plateau time interval where no further conversion to the lipid-mixed state occurs (both in seconds). Set these plateau values at the beginning of main\_chirpfit11.m. When the main script is run, the user will be prompted to select .csv files for analysis. After the files are loaded into memory, the script will again prompt the user; here, select samples which seem to have high lipid-mixing efficiency (by visual inspection in FlowJo). The software will attempt to fit Burr distributions in the pre-pH drop interval and in the plateau time interval. Often, the maximal extent of lipid-mixing is considerably less than 100% and there is some overlap between the characteristic unfused and lipid-mixed distributions. In such cases, the script will attempt to deconvolve the (presumably pure) pre-pH drop distribution from the late time plateau data to more accurately identify the characteristic lipid-mixed distribution. For this to work well, the user may need to tune some parameters in the fit\_binned\_kinetics12\_for\*\*\*.m file. Specifically, the value *confidence\_threshold* in the subfunction *\[late\_deconv, info] = deconvolve\_late\_population(late, early, params1)* is useful for this; tune this value and examine the reconstruction quality in the resulting plot of histograms with overlaid fits. 



The software expects .csv files with the following format: export\_tag1\_tag2\_....csv, where tag# indicate string identifiers for different sample types and treatments. Provide labels for what these tags mean in the *tag\_fields* parameter as a cell array of strings, and specify the order in which you want the software to sort the output data by those tags as a numeric vector, *sort\_order*.



The "IMPORT CSV DATA (FLOWJO OUTPUT)" section will need to be adjusted so that the software will extract data with the correct channel names for the users flow cytometer. By default, we use a channel called RFP\_A as the fusion probe and perform an asinh transformation before fitting. 



In the "ADAPTIVE BIN, COMPUTE FRAC FUSED, FIT MODELS section", the user may choose to modify binning parameters. The code assigns 0.1% of total events into each bin, by default, with a maximum number of bins of 5000. There exist many parameter options for logistic and gamma CDF fitting of the resulting kinetic fraction-fused trajectories--these are mostly used as visual aids and are not reported as qualitative or quantitative analyses, nor are they plotted as visualizations, in our study. 



**Output:**

Many analysis files will be generated by the software and automatically saved in a folder (chirpfit11) generated within the same folder that contains the user-specified .csv input data files. Of primary interest to the user will be lipid-mixing efficiency values (span, in span\_simple.xlsx with standard error span\_SE) and lipid-mixing lag time values (d, in ivw\_lagtime\_rep.xlsx with standard error d\_se; this is the time between detected time of pH drop **t_0** and the time at which 50% of the maximal lipid-mixing effect is reached).



Plots of the kinetic trajectory for each individual sample with overlaid detected plateaus/thresholds for lipid-mixing efficiency and lag-time determination may be found in the automatically generated folder chirpfit11\\span\_lagtime\_plots. An alternative view of each individual sample trajectory may be found in chirpfit11\\kinetics\_report###.pdf (### is a randomly generated number); here, the raw trajectory data is plotted along with overlaid logistic and gamma CDF fits mentioned above. Fit parameters for these fits may also be found in various spreadsheet files in the chirpfit11 output folder, but we find that the model-agnostic efficiency and lag-time measurements in span\_simple.xlsx and ivw\_lagtime\_rep.xlsx are more robust. If the user is interested in gamma CDF fitting of these trajectories, we had more success performing such fits in Graphpad Prism, as explored in SI Methods. 



The user may wish to extract the fraction-fused vs. bin-time trajectories for analysis in other software. To do so, load chirpfit11\\workspace.mat and navigate to the staggeredBinData table in the workspace.

